Blog suspended... I am suspending my blog temporarily... I have to do something for the class I am in. After it is done, I will fill you in. I am not taking the day off, but I just had an extremely long day in Ann Arbor. I will explain it more when it is completed. My last year of high school was busy, as you can expect. With all the events of my senior year, I had in addition my preparations for college. I went to 3 different colleges with my dad, Purdue University, Kettering University, and of course the University of Michigan. GO BLUE! This was finally the point in my life where I could be free from the “normal-ties” of a high school student’s life. Oh, I wish I could have that mindframe back. Everything would change with my sophomore year. I was just as busy as I was in high school. One of my friends clued me in on a choir that I could play for and I even got a work study job accompanying financially destitute students in the School of Music, Theatre, and Dance at the University of Michigan, the Musical Theatre department. That is where I noticed that there was this kid who was something special, I could tell, but he was just a young child. Who would have thought that he would later turn out to be Benj Passak? How cool?!?! For those who do not know, he is the composer of La La Land, a fairly famous movie. However, my primary focus was my classes. I was fortunate enough to have taken AP courses. This was the time when Michigan allowed AP credits. I went in with 26 credits already completed, almost my first year of school finished (16 credits times 2 semesters equals 32 credits). I can recall the very first class I had to take at UM. It was at 8:30 a.m., for all of you UM students out there, that was 8:40 a.m.—Michigan time—and it was incredibly early. I can recollect which I was the butt of all jokes with my friends at the time and how hard the course was. I wanted to quit right there, but after some careful consideration I decided to continue at UM. I look back with wonder at how busy I was. Then I signed up to teach catechism to little second graders at the same parish that I was able to play the piano at school. Pay attention because the choir at St. Mary’s Student Parish plays a pivotal role in my story later. With a bit of trepidation, I went into my sophomore year. Not having the roommate I wanted, I went into living on North Campus, a faraway land of engineers and music students and a few other schools, a real lively place. I have the nightmare where you wake up late to your college exam. But, I quickly realized that this dream was a reality. I was tardy to my Inorganic Chemistry final exam and I will never forget the time on my clock: it was saying 8:30 a.m. and my exam started at 8 a.m.. I ran out the door so fast; this was on North Campus and my test was on Central Campus. It was a 20 minute bus ride from North Campus down to Central Campus. I got an ‘A’ for the semester so it could not be too bad. However, all that would change on the day which will forever live in infamy within my mind’s eye. The date: April 15th, 2005. I am taking a day off... Today, Michigan won. However the true question still has yet to be answered. Can we win against anyone good? I think next week we will be able to tell a lot about the University of Michigan Wolverine’s chances versus the rest of the Big Ten’s teams. I realize this was Rutgers Scarlet Knights that we beat by 52 points, but do not get your hopes up at this present moment. I, an amateur, think that Harbaugh was being stubborn and calling the offensive plays himself. If you will recall, I have seen one other quarter of the “Speed in Space” way of playing football. The second quarter of the very first game. Michigan took 12 years to get a win over a ranked opponent on the road. In 2006, the Wolverines beat Notre Dame and again, in 2018, they barely squeaked out a victory against MSU. All I am saying is it may take some time. Next time you want to rag on the Wolverines or Harbaugh I want you to remember that fact. Did you know the only other team in the Big 10 to have that poor of a showing versus the top 25? I will tell you that said team is now in a league all its own. Purdue!! Time for our weekly round up of the Greco Latin roots. I know that this must be incredibly boring for you, but it is not for me. So, real quick, does anyone remember what an “atypical” person is like? I will give you a hint: it is not a TV show on Netflix! Greek root What it Means in English Common Words Etymology (Word Origin) Sentence Example acr- Height, summit, tip Acrobatics, acromegaly, acrophobia, acronym Ákros, “high” or “extreme” I have acroataxia on the fingers and toes of my right hand side. anem- Wind Anemometer Anemos Nemo lives in an anemone, so called because anemones used to be known as windflower. ant- Against, opposed to, preventative Antagonist Anti, “against” Can I have an antacid because I think I ate some food that did not agree with my stomach? anti- Against, opposed to, preventative Antipode, antibiotics Anti, “against” Some might see him as being antisocial because he is on his phone all the time, but I do not. anth- Flower Anther, anthology Anthos, “flower” She suffers from anthophobia because flowers make her sneeze. I decided I was moving too fast last week. I have to make a correction to last week. I constructed the sentence, “Many thanks to https://www.oakton.edu/user/3/gherrera/Greek%20and%20Latin%20Roots%20in%20English/greek_and_latin_roots.pdf for allowing me use of their list of words.” as if the people of oakton.edu gave me permission to use their work. They did not allow me the adaption of their list. I am sorry. But thanks to the people at oakton.edu for posting that list. Does anyone object to my nerdiness with the Greco Latin roots? I am enjoying this, but I could see how you may not be. High school here I was. I had slowly developed a taste for music in grade school. When I went to talk to the band teacher at my high school, she said the clarinet was a beautiful instrument and here is the kicker; she also said the piano player was leaving my freshman year. So she told the position would have an audition coming up in my sophomore year. For those of you that do not know, I played a little bit of clarinet and a lot of the piano, I mean, a lot of the piano growing up. I had rehearsed for the piano for only three years from Grade 5-8. However, I was an accomplished pianist. Having played at the American Guild of Music competitions each year, I was the top of my class every year. I still have those trophies, winning at least 3 per year. My dad and I went up for band camp. The first week of August, I was so excited there was going to be people like me (dorks--I use the word with the most love!) at camp. I can still recall the first guy who was up there was reading Dracula. Just like me, I had been reading everything at that point. I had been reading since I was two, a dictionary that I had received from my mom and dad. But, band camp went swimmingly, and I met some great people there. Including my best friend at the time,  she was a female and a great companion. We even went to her high school junior prom together. Aww, cute. Until I get pulled over, my dad was coming in the car behind me. Then, I did not tell my mom until years later. She was surprised. But enough about me, my best friend from high school is what this paragraph is supposed to be about. At her graduation party I got so drunk, I nearly passed out. Sorry, Mom and my best friend’s mom. I said the term “pumpernickel, ” because I thought it was a funny word. Needless to say that I never lived that down until years later. I better stop because telling you these stories is getting me in a lot of trouble. So, I went through my freshman year, and in my sophomore year, the pianist graduated. After that, I auditioned for the jazz band and the rest is history as they say. I was all of the sudden not just in jazz band, but also in the jazz combo, and after some time I was playing for the plays and the men’s chorus. I was a busy kid. With all the Advanced Placement classes and piano playing, I do not know how I even slept. I have even played for all of my Catholic school’s masses. Band kids were cra-cra as my one friend says. We will go over why that is wrong in my language of disability chapter. It was my one, incidentally, area of specialty in school, by which I mean I wrote the most number of papers about it. When we went to China, sophomore year, the band kids were so brazen as to go out on the side of our building, the hotel, for a smoke break. You would never catch doing anything wrong at all. The only group more passionate group at my high school than the band kids were the theater nerds. This was another opportunity we had to meet girls. Naturally, my best friend was in all the musicals we had in school. She was in all Regina productions as well. We did Hello, Dolly!; Oliver!; My Fair Lady; and Me and My Girl. I cannot recall the Regina shows. Maybe one of you can tell me? I always think of Starburst Jelly Beans when I recall the shows. Those kinds of jelly beans are still and always were my favorite type of candy. When one year the music teacher gave me two colossal containers of those morsels, I was over the moon, so happy to receive some of my favorite candies. We should have a reunion of all the theater kids. I think I will do that this Christmas season.  Funnily enough, most of the theater kids, but not all of them, turned out to be LGBTQ. I say that because we are not supposed to stereotype, are we? Well, it is the honest-to-God truth in my high school. A large portion of the music kids there emerged as LGBTQ. Of course, another good chunk of them acted as straight as an arrow. But this was my first introduction to any LGBTQ people, and I decided to not be like them at all. I would want to be my own kind of LGBTQ person. I was in all Advanced Placement classes. My year of graduating, 2003, everybody made fun of me for having the largest load of medals at my commencement. At my graduation, they gave out medals for all the courses and I got a total of seven of them. That was a lot, because most of the kids had received a total of zero, one, or two medals. But, I was not the salutatorian or the valedictorian. Thank someone for that. I would not trade DLS for anything. Not even the no-girls, I made some of my best friends’ to this very day. GO DLS! GO REGINA! I graduated from that place, feeling like I got the best high school experience. However, I know that you can probably pick up most Joe Schmos off the street and they will tell you that their high school was the best. All that was a precursor to where I would choose to go to university. The University of Michigan is where I ended up. High School was too busy a time to keep going now. I got a pretty phenomenal score on the Math section of the ACT. It was another reason I chose the university I did. I wish my academics would have gone down a little differently. But I would not trade my education in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts for anything. But, more on that later next week. I started going to school at 3. No wonder I was wanting to be done when I am 33! 30 years of doing anything will take it out of you. I know some of my readers are approaching 40 years with their respective companies. I was in Kindergarten; the year was 1990. I can hear all the people who are poking fun at me; it is in good fun, of course. Haha! It was an uneventful Kindergarten. I do not even remember that all that much. I will bet that most of us do not recollect until we start coming into our own. Maybe that is the reason why I switched schools? Maybe I changed for other reasons? From Grades 1-5, I went to Holy Innocents Parish School. What was the mascot at that school? I am very curious now. I have tried looking it up online to no avail.  Following this, I attended St. Angela’s Parish School for Grades 6-8. Now, I was making myself heard. We used to, at the grade school dances, sit on the ground while one of the boy’s lip synced the popular songs. Oh, we were such children! 90’s music was incredibly stupid. Although, this type of experience formed me as the music of anyone’s childhood would. This was the point in my life where I began asking the question: why did I look at the other boys so differently, when most boys were concerned with girls? My reaction to this boy certainly was departing from the other boys. That was because I am gay. Thankfully, I have these amazing family members and friends who love me for me. This was an important part of me which we will revisit at differing parts of my story. It was a very integral point to the story, but it is not all of my story. I am a gay male, though I did not realize how much of an impact on the world I would later have as a disabled person as well. I understand now why I am writing this story. Not only telling you my story of a disabled person, but so that other people will be inspired by the telling of the story of a gay disabled individual. At the risk of being too cliche, it very much does get better. Sure, some things in life are bad. Everyone has those same problems. Furthermore, being gay does not have to define you. Love is love. So today, we are going way back, to 1985, not that far back, but it feels like eons ago. On August 16th, it was just like every day. But, I was born. One thing I have been moderately impressed with is the length of time mother’s stay at the hospital. In my old days, people were always intrigued by the fact that I stayed in the hospital just a days. Now, if you stay in the hospital longer than two days, it seems like you have something wrong with the neonatal. I was a bright shining star for a little kid. Haha! I am sure my childhood looked pretty normal—take note of that word. It will be important later. Most of you do not know this, but we had a pool in our neighborhood and it had a deep end, as well. My parents were two of the biggest presences there and I spent much of my early life at that pool. Why was I so afraid to the water in my later life? I do not know, especially because I was a fish at that pool. Many of my earliest memories were of me and the water. The memories that stick out to me were of that pool and at Roseville’s or at St. Clair Shores community pools. The latter two were swimming lessons. As a matter of fact, this walk down memory lane has been good for me because I now am remembering why I was so afraid of the water. Probably the first memory that I have was at the Roseville Junior High pool. All I can remember is being told to jump in the shallow end. I was very fearful of this experience. Can you imagine being commanded to jump without your mom and dad right there. Of course, I had swimmies on. Do they even call them swimmies now, wow, the companies still call them swimmies, or toddler floaties. Thanks, Amazon! This was not a paid advertisement of Amazon, however now that I mention it, I would like this to be. I have three more days of this fascinating first chapter. I am sure! I just have to set up the story. It is my initial chapter, the first draft. Attention: I will be giving you guys my entire story Monday-Thursday, then my Greco Latin roots on Friday, and my take on the Michigan Wolverines on the weekends. All rights reserved for I plan to publish it (and some more) in a book someday. This first few days are my life previous to my accident. I was the epitome of a white male, able-bodied, of course. I started at Mark Twain Elementary (part of Fraser Public Schools System), Holy Innocent’s Parish, St. Angela’s Parish, and De La Salle Collegiate High School. Yes, you may have noticed a theme with the last three schools. That right, I went to Catholic school for Grades 1-12. Part of the reason why I am so punctual is that at Catholic school if you were on time, you were late. I can trace that back to three possible culprits to my being so on time for every event, my time in the Catholic school system, my father (also a Catholic school graduate), and my rides on the Paratransit system at the University of Michigan. If any of you can relate, you are the best! I would not trade my time at a Catholic school for nothing, even if it were in the case of my high school an all-guys school. What is the number one question people ask about me going to a Catholic all-male high school: what did you guys do if a female presence required? I am here to tell you that we were resourceful, we had a plethora of schools to choose from. The primary school we went to was the all-girls high school just down the road, Regina. That was where my best friend from high school went. Regina was where some of my closest friends attended high school. However, a girl from anywhere is a girl, and I know that will get me in trouble. Particularly with my sister, who is a Catholic school girl as well. We had our pick of girls, from all the public schools and private ones to boot. We had all the girls at De La Salle high school dances. I can even remember two of the female teachers, and they were in charge of the girl’s dress code at the DLS dances. These girls were not the best dressed if you know what I mean. Those teachers deserved an award or something. But getting back to my story, that was all so long ago. I did not think I recollected. This was before smartphones and GPS. How did we ever live back then? If you were to come to me then and tell me of the magic Bluetooth. I would probably feel your head and promptly inform you that you were sick. I do not wish to be too repetitive so that I will keep these first couple posts down in length. I could go on forever and a day with high school stories. However, that is not what you came here for; I just have one more thing to say about high school for today. American Pie by Don McLean (sp?) Most of you will have a high school song. American Pie was my high school’s song. I am still reeling from this “my favorite team in NCAA performing so poorly.” However, I bleed maize and blue. So GO BLUE until next week, when we will hopefully not have to witness such a massacre. But, who knows with another Big 10 opponent on the horizon? We have one of hardest conferences besides the South. Well what can I say about the Michigan Wolverines? If you had not yet seen, we got absolutely man handled on Saturday. Wisconsin was a great opponent, but the Umich had no excuse to be playing so poorly. I am not sure whether it is the coaches or players that are to blame. I am back! The reverse job fair went extremely well. What is a reverse job fair; you might say? That is one in which the companies come to you. I got a few leads; we will need to wait and see where they go. I have been told to not expect anything to come from this event. However, that was mostly just practice for when real companies begin their interviewing process. For today’s LoD blog post, I want to focus on the hateful words associated with the topic of ableism. There are two groups of words here. They are, one, words or phrases tied with history and, two, those used in metaphors. I will go over the two later. First, these thoughts have evolved since my last writing. Evolution is a natural part of life. Most of the thoughts here are a direct result of being a part of my University of Michigan disability culture group. The first of these is the words or phrases which have a close relationship to history.  The following are ableist: Gimp Crazy Handicap Insane Stupid Retard(ed) These words or phrases are not to be used, at all. There are many other words or phrases I have chosen not to type because I am disabled person and I do not wish to give these the light of day. Same with the n-word or Indian, when referring to Native—or indigenous—Americans, are a few examples of what those words. History is a big part of who we are. Those words or phrases are ableist because of the deep and often prevalent historical (I know that is an oxymoron) use of the words or phrases. Many of the words or phrases have been in popular use; think of ableism as something as old as chauvinism. I will not bore you with a list of those words or phrases, only for you to categorize them. 9 times out of 10 people do not know about ableism words or phrases, but just ask your neighborhood disabled person if you are not familiar with them. Second of all, the words or phrases used as metaphors. You all remember being in grade school and recall what “metaphors” are. Recollect the English class that you were in where the teacher said “like/as” were associated with metaphors. The following are examples of ableist language: “Blind as a bat” “Deaf as a doornail” “Stand up like Shaq” “Stupid like Jim Carrey” The preceding were just examples, many better and worse have been thought up before. The words or phrases listed above are the main way phrases are communicated that are ableist. The main difference in what I think about now versus what I think about in the past is the reclaiming of the word “disabled” or any of its similarly rooted words. It is now okay to use that word. We are taking it back and it is now a good word to say. I would not want any of my fair readers to spew more hatred on this world. It is bad enough out there. Especially for young children, I wish for all the youngsters that they learn a love for their body. They should not be taught to “hate” their body because of its “disability.” As a matter of fact, I yearn for nobody on this earth to be so full of the hatred that many of the mainstream groups of people possess. I am suspending my blog so I can work on my reverse job fair. I have a ton of work in the next few days. Warning: I have been studying the AP Stylebook, that is a guidebook which lets you write in the same styling as the Associated Press and it will allow me to edit and write technical writing articles. I am going to talk about a very close personal idea to being a disabled person. I feel dirty, telling you about it. Haha! Today, I am going to speak to you regarding “inspiration porn” and to involve Stella Young’s TedX video from Sydney, Australia. I put the link to it in this blog post. First of all, Young was a quite brilliant and hilariously funny disabled advocate. If you guys do not know her, you should look her up on Google—Google is a very smart lady! She was incredibly young when she died, only 32 years old. I think we all need to take a moment to remember her. She was living down under and Wikipedia said that she was “a...comedian, journalist, and disabled advocate.” She did a TedX talk in Sydney. The words “inspiration porn” were actually first coined in an editorial on the online Ramp Up magazine that is owned by the Australian Broadcasting Company. Look here for Young’s Wikipedia page: https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stella_Young ‘Inspiration porn’ refers to the objectification of disabled people. Young, always funny, cheerfully informs the audience of the time she was a high school teacher. She was sitting in a class for close to 30 minutes, when she was asked by a student, “When are you going to do your speech?” Just at that moment, she realized that all of the students were exposed to ‘inspiration porn’ a bit too much. In her own words, “disabled people are not our teachers or our doctors or our manicurists. We're not real people. We are not there to inspire.” She did not say ‘inspiration porn’ in this video; it was probably too racy at the time of the video. But, she did deal with the subject matter. She continues on for a hot second, then says, here is the quote in my opinion, “I really want to live in a world where disability is not the exception, but the norm.” How true can one’s words be? I am trying to live in that world. It is not easy, but I have been making an attempt at it. Here is Young’s TedX video in which she discusses ‘inspiration:’ https://www.ted.com/talks/stella_young_i_m_not_your_inspiration_thank_you_very_much/up-next I sincerely hope that by now; you can see why this video is included in on our ableism stories. If you cannot, I will explain it to you. It would be on here because the angle Young’s take on disability portrays. Disability is a directly ableist word, not a bad word. As I have learned in my time at school, I wish no one to be so hateful of anyone that he or she or they are ashamed of who they are. That is a topic we will have to go into another day, child bullying. It has been getting better. Besides that Young’s video is fairly priceless and humorous, why did I bring this presentation to you, reader? I brought it to your careful consideration because disabled people do not deserve to be only the “inspiration.” We are people and, sure, we do inspiring accomplishments but we also do questionable accomplishments. Just like everyone else. We are people and I want everybody to remember that. Today, I was flipping through my Facebook feed while writing this very blog post. I came across an “inspiration porn” post. It was so cute, but totally unnecessary. It was a picture of a young child with mental disabilities. I will not go into that anymore in fear of them reading this blog. However, when will people come to realize that mental disabilities are real? These people are not trying to be cute. They just are. I could think of so many other stories that are more important than that IP. One more thing, I heard this song today and its melodies were so haunting and familiar at the same time. I did a little research and found out that the song was done by Whitney Houston and covered by several others. This song was So Emotional by Jon McLaughlin. Everyone should check it out including my PA, because if he does not guess what song we will play all day tomorrow. A byte (that was a minuscule amount of tech humor) about the length of these blog posts: I have been reading a lot regarding writing in general. Most of the authors of these blurbs seem to come to a consensus. They pretty much say to just publish something everyday. I, as well, am thinking the same idea when dealing with my blog. So, I have decided to just write something in my blog every day. It does not matter how much, one day it could be as large as 2,000 words or it could conversely be as little as 100 words. I am not going to restrict myself to any one number. I am a dork or a nerd or even a dweeb; I know. Maybe that is why no one is reading this blog? However, the only idea I have regarding being a human being is that I can be myself, which is the truth. I am not going to apologize for being myself. That is a massive step for me. You can probably guess, not much has happened to me these past few weeks. Besides my brother coming over twice(!) and the several meetings I have in a given week, I was traveling through life. It has been a bumpy ride so far. I enjoy seeing my brother because he still is the closest family member to me, but I know he does not think so. Should I do anything about that fact? About my meetings, a lot of them were with the people who were preparing my board for the reverse job fair. Very exciting! I am that closer to getting a career.! I am going to send out my blog on my Facebook feed tomorrow. I am going to talk about Michigan football, but I am not the professionals. I am just a guy watching his favorite team. Being a fan since 2003, I have seen all the ups and downs. Let’s be real they were mostly down for the past 15 years. But, not this year, if the hype is to be believed, I do not like to play speculators. I prefer to have them play it on the field. However, I will go into the more positive aspects first. For the most part, I was pleasantly surprised by the defense. Aidan Hutchinson and Vincent Gray were two particularly stand out players. Can they continue this next week? Who knows? Second, I thought Josh Gattis’s play calling was interesting. There definitely was a time or two where I could detect a little jealousy on Jim Harbaugh’s part. I will not say whether this was bad or good. Overall, they did a solid “B.” I did not think we would cover the spread. I think I got some hassle from the other Michigan fans in the room. “It’s the most wonderful time of the year.” I feel like Andy Williams is appropriate here. Football time is in attention again. Our 9 month wait is over. So, if you have not guessed, I am a Michigan man. That means my life has been chock full of “The Team, The Team, The Team.” My one Computer Science professor even refers to his class being for “The Client, The Client, The Client.” Therefore, I do not like to play the guessing game that accompanies, it is game time I think you would have the need for some analysis. I have decided to keep off until Saturday (8/31) I am going to be out of town for 8/21-8/27 I am taking the day off. Some changes are coming in my schedule... --Monday: ~650 words/My Little --Tuesday: ~650 words/Ableism stories --Wednesday: ~100 words/Proflle of disabled person --Thursday: ~650 words/LoD Day --Friday: ~650 words/Technical writing day --Saturday: ~100 words/Michigan football pre-game --Sunday: ~100 words/Michigan football post-game Sorry for changing it around again. Today, I want to discuss institutions. How is that tied to ableism? Institutions were created by the state once upon a time as a place where they would ”keep” disabled people. Those places were thought to stigmatize ”disability” by holding up that ”limitations” were contagious. Of course, this was later found to be false. ”...[D]isabilit[ies] [are] not...contagious…” was one of the instances where I searched online and located disabilities are not contagious. That was out of Journal of Medical Humanities in Margot Shildrick’s article ”Becoming Vulnerable: Contagious Encounters and the Art Risk.” The story can be uncovered at the following website: https://scholar.google.com/scholar?hl=en&as_sdt=0%2C23&q=disabilities+are+not+contagious+&btnG=#d=gs_qabs&u=%23p%3Dd05ZzD-ZE3sJ. There are many other sources confirming my supposition. Many of the said publications can be unearthed at the preceding web address. While we are on the subject of disabilities not being contagious, have I got a story for you. I did not tell this scary story to anyone. When I was in Calculus 2 at the fine place of learning Macomb Community College right near my house, I was talking to this one guy, ”Nicky, ” we will call him, after class. We moved out in the hallway, for there was another class in the room after ours. When we got out, we encountered his other friend, ”Wicky.” He was friendly and amiable, but when I went to shake his hand, something was afoot. Wicky did not want to shake my hand! It was as if my hand went out, but his own did not. I know that it was just a handshake. However, that occurred and was like an insult to my character. I will never forget that day. This was even more surprising given the date was 2014. All names have been changed to protect the innocent. Now, back to your regularly scheduled programming, the story of institutions was very perplexing. One instance of this story was as follows. Many of you do not know the Arc; they are the nation's largest civil rights group, for people with disabilities, based out of Washington, D.C.. They recently ”reject… President Trump’s comments on bringing back institutions.” The Arc’s CEO, Peter Berns, has said, “Re-institutionalization would bring people with disabilities back into the dark ages of isolation and segregation.” I could not have said it more correct myself. Trump apparently wants us to go back to ”the dark ages.” That is the scariest quotation I have heard in a while. I would prefer it to not live in an institution. I want the outside world. This story can be found at: https://thearc.org/the-arc-rejects-president-trumps-comments-on-bringing-back-institutions/?fbclid=IwAR23zvxFoRCf11YF7j1K59dQ3nmlz3L2F8SIWmWBllLVf8lYZFPPCRtJKm8. That was Saturday morning, then I received this article in my email this morning. It said, ”Trump Extends Program Helping People Leave Institutions.” What a change from the President's comments this weekend? The article noted that the government will give $122.5 million for a program that helps people abandon institutions. Money Follows the Person is a federal aid program created because of the Olmstead Decision of 1999. That said people with disabilities have the right to community-based services in lieu of institutions.  MFTP exists to serve part with disabilities vacate institutions. This last part is the one in which my faith in humanity is restored. You can find the story here: https://www.disabilityscoop.com/2019/08/20/trump-extends-program-helping-people-leave-institutions/27038/. You see why I said ”perplexing,” in the beginning. To go from one extreme to the other in a weekend is a lot for anyone to take into consideration. Hello. Happy Monday! I seriously hope your start to the week is going nicely and your weekend went stupendously! Mine was filled with a whole lot of typing. Wait for my article to be published in one of the Detroit newspapers or the Macomb Daily, my county in Michigan paper, or I will just put it on here if no one picks it up. Very exciting. This was all on the heels of my birthday, and it came with a meeting on Friday that went phenomenally. I will tell you about that in a minute. First of all, I am getting faster than I was previously. Only minimally, hey, that is slightly more improved from when we started this blog together. I am looking forward to what becomes of my writing when, if I can, I could type normally. In reference, I typed previously less than one word per minute. I now write at the speed of less than 3 words per minute. That is 200 percent increase. Still slow, but at least we are getting somewhere. Not bad, if you ask me for only doing this for one month. I will keep you updated on my writing speed. I know that it would take a ton of work, but nothing in life that is good sticks out in my mind as being short in length of time. This writing speed includes research plus typing time. The one area which I have problems with is numbers. Do any of you who read my blog know of any app that will help me improve my work with the regular counting numbers, both positive and negative, and the four operations? I would be forever grateful to you if you will help point me in the right direction (no pun intended). This semester, I will participate in my Electrical Engineering and Computer Science senior design class as the focal participant, again. That class has been the single greatest opportunity for me to improve my count of the assistive technologies that I possess. I am extremely appreciative that class will work with me. The Professor will email me later on this week. In the past, they have proposed a significant number of inventions for me. If you have watched my Facebook page at the end of each semester I think I have posted pictures if not email me, at the address for this site. It is almost time for school. However, I do not have to go. These past three years, in particular, have been incredibly difficult, no almost impossible, to get through. Ask any college-aged person. The University of Michigan is the hardest school around here. It is almost as if they were making us earn that top-notch degree. That is why the Alumni Association of this school is so large; they figure if anyone can accomplish anything at this school; she or he must be out of their minds a little so why not give them something to be a part of. Before you go off on me for this ”leftist propaganda” or ”PC language, ” it is not, it is how people talk in the 21st Century. We are in 2019, and that is in the 21st Century, shocker. We are not back in the age of institutions. Maybe we are: thearc.org/the-arc-rejects-president-trumps-comments-on-bringing-back-institutions/?fbclid=IwAR23zvxFoRCf11YF7j1K59dQ3nmlz3L2F8SIWmWBllLVf8lYZFPPCRtJKm8. That was a little story I came across in my Facebook feed this weekend. Now, this meeting (that went phenomenally!) was truly a huge success. Thanks in no small part to the DPSS and S & S subgroup! Those two groups of people met August 16th and it was most productive this summer. I am not kidding; this meeting was incredibly useful. We had connected the two groups in a single room. The DPSS actually thoughtfully listened to the S & S subgroup, and they took notes. We are beginning to move in the right direction, when it comes to the disabled students. Now, I have to figure out how to defend the current disabled students. A quick note about my Grammarly keyboard: the symbol for ”disabled” is ♿, the same as the right half of my blog page top border wallpaper. Another word about scheduling, I have decided to move the disability calendar to Friday. My post is up in word count already. Technical writing, here I will answer the question; what is a technical writer? I will also expose the ”secrets” to be a technical writer. First, what is a technical writer? They are those who take the hard engineering concepts and make them so that the everyday people can understand it. Basically, TechWhirl.com explains it ”as simplifying the complex.” We write the instruction manuals the engineers have. I am particularly excited to be in the disability field because at all the meetings everyone is asking for a clear and concise way of writing out the information to distribute for all the other disabled students. A technical writer should do well with those tasks. The funny situation is that I am using Grammarly keyboard, which is a typing system that is supposed to make you ”smarter” than the average bear, and it does not know what a technical writer is. Is that a sign or what? No one ever is familiar with what a technical writer does. I am continually amused by the strange looks given to me when I say those words to them. ”I am going to be a technical writer.” More exact words have never been spoken to me. Yet, I feel like I do not want to explain it to the general public. You see, my field is so small that on the Bureau of Labor Statistics website, you cannot even find my job entails. That is why we have Google. She knows it all. WARNING: Numbers are about to come your way. The total number of technical writers is 49,960 people. That is out of a current rough estimate of 233,000,000 people living in the United States. This comes out to 0.02% of the people living in the country. In comparison, there are known to be 0.4% of doctors living in our country. The median salary of a technical writer is $70,930. Some could be higher; some could be lower. But, that is not bad for right out of college. Now, my English nerd side shines on through. Why does it have to be in English, the ”not” when it is typed out goes in a different position than if it were making the contraction. I guess they, general ones, say English is the hardest language to learn for a reason. This one little snag has me left wanting more of an explanation. Maybe I will research it and report back to you on a week where I have more time. The week has been a busy one for me. I have been writing a lot, which I am told is good if I want to be a writer. I would like to become a technical writer, that still is hard for me to type. Since I am out of school, I am one step closer to my dream. Getting off social security, that seems to be the winner here. No one has done that in over 10 years from around here. I only met one person out near school doing that. I have met loads of people going to do it. Language of Disability(LoD) days should be an everyday occurrence. Non-disabled people just are not familiar with the LoD. Usually, 9 times out of 10 disabled people say ask and they will tell you. We have a huge stigma to get over in our society, that disabled people can talk for themselves. I have a hearty feeling that a lot of society’s problems will be solved if we just ask. Today, I want to focus on what is the difference between identity- and person-first language. Easy question to get us going, or so you would consider. This concern is number one among non-disabled people. Then, we will dive into it now. First, what is identity-first language? It is one in which we take the status of the person first. To use a racial metaphor, that is when you would say “an African-American.” Which leads to my next sub question, what is person-first language? That is when you take into account first, the people. To continue with the racial metaphor, this is referring to when you would say instead, “a person from Africa.” I know some people prefer it if I used “black” but the previous example was just a case in point. I acknowledge that racism runs rampant in our country these days. Do you know the single biggest problem with people I have today? They never ask me. You already knew that. Maybe it’s society now, but we need to get over the stigma that disabled people are not talkers? I bet you that any disabled person would say that is the number one concern. Disabled people are your friends! I swear (most of us) do not bite. Those of us who do still deserve the last shroud of dignity that is a “hello!” or “how are you?” Most disabled people are friendly and hospitable. Do any of you who read this conjecture that this is too much of me ranting? Just Tuesday, Ken Cuccinelli, the acting (whatever that means; I cannot find it) director of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, said some pretty great lines of poetry. Then he went there real quick. He started out saying those timeless lines of poetry, Give me your tired, your poor, Your huddled masses yearning to breathe free, The wretched refuse of your teeming shore. Send these, the homeless, tempest-tost to me, I lift my lamp beside the golden door!" He then says that it needs to be rewritten as, “'Give me your tired and your poor who can stand on their own two feet and who will not become a public charge…” Can everybody else see the clearly ableist terminology here? I will elaborate in case you missed it, ”stand on their own two feet” is an insult to those who are less than able. It implies that the immigrants can even stand to begin with. I did not sign up for the type of situations that our President continues to put us through. It makes me violently ill what this President perpetually tries us. It is time to do something! What? I do not know yet. I wrote a strongly worded letter to the acting director yesterday. He has to know that he cannot spew those words out anymore; it is 2019, for pete’s sake. Those who are less abled are certainly downtrodden, last time I checked the word’s definition. They are the epitome of who I would like in this country. I am seriously doubt that we can ”Make America Great Again” when we have these problems to deal with. You can view the story here: https://www.npr.org/2019/08/13/750726795/immigration-chief-give-me-your-tired-your-poor-who-can-stand-on-their-own-2-feet Wow, that was a rant. Was those types of things okay to write about from time to time? I know that I stayed under my word count miraculously. Today, I will cover any range of topics from the environment, as I have done previously, to the birthday of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). Also, I will profile a disabled person from the past or present. (I almost typed future here; that would have been weird. If I did that I would be in a different career field-a psychic one.) Happy Birthday American with Disabilities Act!!! On July 26th, the ADA turned 29. The ADA is old like me. It is almost 30, think about that for a second. That bill is fundamental to my existence. Do you know most of the elevators are in use mainly because of the one little piece of paper signed by George H. W. Bush? Architecture was forever changed by that bill. Last summer, I worked for the ADA Coordinator’s Office in the Office of Institutional Equity at the University of Michigan. During my job, I was extremely fortunate. I was tasked with reading the ADA codes for work. Aside from there being a lot of those, I got the chance to read all of the minute details about architecture. Did you know what the size is of a wheelchair determined by the federal government is? 30 inches by 48 inches. That may seem small to you but that 1,440 inches squared are lifesavers for people like me. (I would be guilty of having too many numbers here. Maybe we will talk about that on Friday?) May you please think about the status of that bill on that day? I hear about all these powerhouses in the crowd on that morning in front of the White House, like John McCain or Pat Kennedy. They were the big names in Congress of which I first remember. Wow! What huge names? The last of the names of those who actually did work. I am a bad-mouther on Congress right now, until they can show that they can work and be rid of such partisan politics. I have talked about that three weeks ago. How the time has passed since I got this blog? Can you believe it has already been 3 weeks? It is almost the beginning of the school year and the end of summer. It has been a nice summer. I am rambling now, and I want you to recall the fact that you should hit me. Haha I would be remiss if I did not remember all my brothers and sisters from before now. That day changed the future for so many, but disabled people all owe a giant debt of gratitude to all the disabled persons who came before them. I would like to tell you a story about Alice Cogswell. Way back in the 1800’s, this little girl was afflicted with cerebral-spinal meningitis when she was 2. In that disease she lost her hearing, and, much later, she also lost her ability to speak. When she was 9, one Thomas Gallaudet moved in next door. He and her father determined that a common, everyday time in a school setting would be at her best advantage. In 1817, she along with six others attended what would come to be known as Galladuet College, the first school for the disabled. She was a pioneer for all disabled people. In 1830, she died when Alice Cogswell was 25. You can look up the life of Alice Cogswell here: https://web.archive.org/web/20080211223650/http://www.deafis.org/history/who/alice.php Whoa! Can you believe that the disabled people in the past only lived to 25? The one floored me. I guess that means I would be passed on before I even got to go back to school. This was the most alarming fact. How far have we come to I know of a disabled person at my physical therapy place who is well into his 70’s? I am just shocked at that fact. Attention: Please do not use any language on this entire aisforability.com website without my express written (usually via email) permission. I will put this up on the website later today. Ableism stories, I think I have done an excellent job explaining it in my blog post. If you have any further questions, feel free to contact me via the email address, for this site, bebenhoeh@aisforability.com. “But that’s why we fight. You have to properly diagnose the problem you can cure the problem. So I believe we are going to cure this disease of [ableism]. Just like we’re in a battle against cancer, we’re in a battle against [ableism], I believe we’re gonna win that fight and find that cure for cancer, and I believe we’re gonna somehow find a cure for [ableism].” That was a quote from Ben Crump, a civil rights attorney, in John Hutcherson’s article entitled “Black Lives Lawyer” from New York magazine. Except, I added “ableism” when he meant “racism.” However, why did I add that word? What exactly is “ableism?” Here is the link for this story: http://nymag.com/intelligencer/2019/07/ben-crump-civil-rights-lawyer-police-brutality.html I do not mean to downplay racism, but I only meant to show you multiple layers of hate embedded in our great country and it is very hard to find a quote on disability. Well, that precisely is what I wanted to write on today. If you look online for the word “ableism,” you will find a lot of great resources. When I searched online, I was able to find that the website stopableism.org, their blog puts it best, ableism is “[t]he practices and dominant attitudes in society that devalue and limit the potential of persons with disabilities.” I firmly believe that disabled people are capable of some of the most impressive feats of strength, both of the mind and body. Take one of my personal heroes, Stephen Hawking. Most people know that he was disabled. He did not shy away from the people who said, “No, he could not…” He was not even under the safety and protection of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA)—more to come on this miracle of a bill tomorrow. How strong must he be to live that way?  I was looking for a story about to exemplify what ableism does. I want to talk about one of the biggest movies this summer. Avengers: Endgame is over 3 hours and is displaying ”Hollywood's Hidden Ableism.” that is according to the MTV News article I found online searching for items to write about today. The intriguing online post stated, and this is one hundred percent true personally verified by me, ”For disabled fans, however, particularly those whose disabilities interfere with their bladder control, the runtime can feel daunting and inhibitory.” I would typically gloss over this, but I thought that the online version of this article was particularly poignant for our discussion. I am sure if you look for ”ableism,” you will be surprised at how prevalent the hatred is in our society. Back to the issue at hand, the movies, how many times have I had to use the restroom when going to the show? Too many times. The movie theater is supposed to be a place of leisure. Can you imagine having to use the restroom every time you have to go there? Think about all the normally-abled people in this situation as well. I remember a time where going to the show was a somewhat enjoyable experience. Those were the ”good old days!” Here is a link to the story: http://www.mtv.com/news/3122683/avengers-endgame-runtime-ableism/ Ableism is just like racism, homophobia, and any of the other types of hate imbibed in society. Who knows why we drink from the cup, so to speak. All we can do is acknowledge it and say we will do better the next time. We all are “ableistic,” including me. Ableism was born in us long before now. One example of ableism is when you begin thinking of calling someone “crazy” or “”psycho.” That is ableist language because you never know about someone’s mental state. Use instead “frustrating” or “awful,” instead. Now, you understand what ableism is. It will be a very important topic of discussion for me. The point I am trying to make is ”ableism” is most prevalent in our everyday lives. It is just like the forms of hatred: Islamophobia, racism, homophobia, ageism, transphobia, colonialism, or any of the other types of hate. That needs to be eradicated in our ”supposed-to-be” inclusive society. A shirt I relatively recently saw said, ”Ableism is trash.” How appropriate is that? I am back, for better or worse! I will be writing in this more often, everyday. As a precursor to the new everyday blog, the following is a rough outline of what I am going to write on each day: Monday: My life Tuesday: Ableism (more to come tomorrow) stories Wednesday: Various stories/Profile of disabled people Thursday: The Language of Disability Friday: Technical writing day I will have a little about my topic each day this week. My life, I will keep my followers abreast of my many meetings and such. Also, I would like to propose a little segment where I catch you up on the many different types of disability events going on around town, in particular, any events going on within Ann Arbor, Michigan, where I am most familiar with. A ”disability scoop, ” sort of, it will not be very educational for all involved. I know that is a trademarked brand name, I was alluding to what it could be like. A quick note on the length of these posts: I heard that it is customary to publish 2,000 words per day if are going to be a writer. However, that is going to be too much to do at first. I propose that I publish 2,000/3 or approximately 670 words in a day. The miracle of what I am going into—technical writing is the version of that more concerned with the clearness and conciseness that your writing could be—is the greatest factor in which I am basing my decision on. See much earlier for my reasons to choose the magic number of 3. Of course, these first posts will be longer. Recently, I went to attend the musical Hamilton in Chicago, the CIBC theater. Ask me of the theater name if you so wish, but I do not know. However, the show was AMAZING, especially the sets and lighting of the musical.  Thank you for alerting me to this easily overlooked part, my friend’s husband. The characters were very surprising as well, in particular the fellow who played King George II. He was hilarious. But, you know me, I had to find some mistakes with the musical. I heard some screw ups in the band. Indeed, there were some mistakes, but they merely reminded me why I adore musicals. Without these screw ups, I would not be enamored with live theater. Do not ever change! I love the live theater because it is never the same night after night. I have seen many shows, from way back in the 5th grade. Thanks to my great aunt and uncle for opening my eyes with Joseph and the Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat. However, the show I have just seen may be the greatest show I have ever watched. My family and I also went to St. Joseph and Grand Haven, two coastal towns on Lake Michigan. We went there to see the Coast Guard ships, pretty cool. Every year, the Coast Guard brings their ships to that place for the Coast Guard festival. I have many fond memories of Grand Haven, most of them involving my brother and sister all going up to this Coast Guard festival with my dad. He was the driver of one of the ships many moons ago. I have been going to a ton of meetings in this past week. This Student IDEA Board has proven to be a whole lot more work than any single disability organization that I have been on. They are a different type of meetings than I usually have been on, as well. More tedious than normal, I am glad I have been with this board.  Plus, I am on this board with some pretty cool people, some of which I am privileged to call my friends and some which I am esteemed to call my mentors. I am still on my kick of the Safety and Security of the other disabled students at the University of Michigan. It is moving rather slowly, which is to be expected when you are going to change a high school, such as Michigan. Disability events around UM’s campus and other places: This weekend The Peanut Butter Falcon, a movie with disabled characters, but without any inspiring story plots. Look it up! October 2019 Disability Community Month Language of Disability event Disability Culture event January 2020 School of Music, Theatre, and Dance Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion event based around disability October 2020 Disability Pride Parade Sorry about the non-specificity of many of these events. I will have more details as they become available. U of M: Student with Disabilities’ Perspective on the Horrifying Shooting Scare Mass shootings are not uncommon to the average American citizen. The rate of shootings in our country is astronomical, as stated in massshootingtracker.com. Within the span of seventy-six days, according to massshootingtracker.com, there has been a total of sixty-seven mass shootings. That statistic is not counting the number of times that we have been fearful because of all the mass hysteria around our country. It is time to stop being the bystander and to start creating action. I am a student with several disabilities and this all happened differently for me. On March 16, I had a harrowing experience that I will not forget anytime soon. When I was with my scribe-- someone who assists by writing for me--we got the news that an active shooter was on campus. It was very weird; one second we were scribing and then we were interrupted by a group of students urging us to “Get to the basement now; there has been a report of an active shooter near Mason Hall.” This is where I became concerned. Immediately, everyone suspended their activities. Leaving the partially opened room became our main priority. For some reason, we had not received any texts from University of Michigan emergency alerts (UM EAlerts). I was alarmed and distressed. We were to find out that the cops were looking for three separate shooters. I did not know any specifics, but I knew something serious was going down. Later, we would find out that it was apparently balloons popping. (Please see President Mark Schlissel’s response and the sorority’s apology.) I was stuck in my accessible dorm room, with a connecting bathroom,  for over three hours. I spent those three hours in the bathroom, scared for my life. In the first hour, the UM EAlerts finally came through. At 5:03 p.m., the first alert said, “Active shooter in Mason Hall. Run, hide, fight.” It is truly horrifying to see that type of text message coming from your school, a place one conventionally thinks of as safe. However, I think that is the one big concept that UM can improve upon: sending out the text messages sooner. In addition, I think that UM should install two cops in every dorm. Although there was not an active shooter, I wish that there had been some cops present. I know that the cops were probably helping out other students, but that did not explain why there were no cops present from what I saw in East Quad that day. Another alert followed at 5:17 p.m.: “Unconfirmed reports of active shooter, Officers are in the area checking. Stay away from the area of Mason Hall.” In the second hour, we still did not know anything. We were getting reports about the various places the shooter could be, including one false report that there was a shooter outside East Quad. My caretaker, my scribe, and I were stuck in the bathroom and all I knew is that I had to use the restroom, but there were girls present. At 6:31 p.m., there seemed to be a glimmer of hope in the next alert saying, “There does not appear to be an active threat to the community. DPSS, U-M Division of Public Safety and Security, continues to investigate. Continue to stay clear of area.” Three minutes later, we received the message that “There continues to be no indication of an active threat to the community. Police continue to investigate. Please stay away from Angell and Mason Halls.” In hour three, we were finally free; the “all-clear” had been given to us at 7:50 p.m.: “All Clear. Police have determined there is no threat to the community. Buildings are open. All clear." I expect that in the future, the UM EAlerts would be sent without delay to my phone. I wish for no more gun violence, but that is an unrealistic notion. I wish that I could have a lot, however it is not until we take action about the UM EAlerts that I can rest easier. I propose that we take up that call to action and suggest that DPSS make a stronger effort to be prompt with UM EAlerts. I would like to publicly acknowledge the DPSS for effort handling of the situation. This is just a suggestion for in the future. I want to make it known that every other time I have received messages promptly and it could have been a fluke. However, this time it was not a fluke to me, a student with a disability. THIS WAS NOT TO BE PUBLISHED: “U.S. Mass Shootings, 2019.” Mass Shooting Tracker, www.massshootingtracker.org/data. “UM EAlert.” Received by Brad Ebenhoeh, UM EAlert, 16 Mar. 2019. Attention: I am going on vacation in Chicago these next few days. That is why I am writing a bit more today. I am writing this blog post to alert a general audience so that they will hopefully not encounter the same challenges when other universities have their own Accessibility boards. The work we are doing is blazing a trail for others to follow. I am on the Student Inclusion, Diversity, Equity, and Accessibility (IDEA) Board at the University of Michigan and heading the Safety and Security (S & S) subgroup. To my knowledge, this is the first time anyone at the University has thought about undertaking this type of project. It is very exciting! In our meeting last Thursday, I was a little scared for the first time. I was under the impression that we were charged with the campus climate of future generations of disabled students. However, I am of the mindset that we have every type. I know, shocking information. I did not feel that we did enough for all emergencies, especially when it comes to fire evacuations. The UM fire marshal was not even there. We got the chance to ask him questions, though there is nothing like that person actually being in the room.  I would extremely appreciate the opportunity to meet with the fire marshal. Along with others, I am personally quite scared of going to the university right now and very cognizant of the personal danger if a fire were to arise. One proposed solution is to have evacuation chairs for those disabled students, faculty, and staff who are on a floor that is higher up than the first floor. I have seen those chairs when I am out to businesses. These would be a real simple proposed solution. What I am suggesting is a proactive step that we can take in the preparations for any university or workplace. Evacuation chairs are an integral part of anywhere. Most people have not heard any little iota about them. In the event of a fire, the following events would transpire. If the fire alarm goes off and you are a person with a disability, it can be very perilous. Can you believe that I am told to stay in my room on the second floor? I am told that I should just get out of the building immediately by several firefighters. I know the doors are fireproof, but what about the smoke coming under the doors. All my assistive technologies are all real expensive and they will not get replaced by the insurance company. I cannot begin to imagine individuals with photosensitive epilepsy navigating the building with the flashing lights or developmental disabilities. I know this is a fire, however I have to think practically, as well. Other people with disabilities are affected by this, too. That is what we are trying to do with this Student IDEA Board, for the betterment of life around campus for those fellow students with disabilities. I do not want to sound like a baby. However, this is the only way to achieve the goal of inclusivity across all ability levels at the university. To be true, I am exceedingly grateful that the University of Michigan’s Department of Public Safety and Security (DPSS) were participating in this Student IDEA board. But, we had only one person. What I have identified is a problem that requires more than one person. It necessitates a community of people. That is why I have been so happy with this university’s Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI) leadership who have created the Student IDEA board. We have so many DEI leads of their respective departments as well. It seems as if the Student IDEA board were a natural progression in our Disabled Rights fight. What an ideal relationship between the IDEA and the DPSS looks like to me is one in which the DPSS was not involved with the IDEA board at all until the final recommendations, when they could require of the IDEA board all that the DPSS wants. In short, I believe DPSS does not do enough with the current disabled people, let alone with the future disabled students, faculty, and staff. I wish we had the opportunity to have one more meeting without the DPSS there in the meeting. I believe we could do our proper jobs, that way! Having the chance to speak candidly about our concerns and identify potential solutions is the only way to accomplish our goal, ensuring the safety and security for all members of the University community. Since we were on the subject, I have some other ideas I wanted to speak on. First, I had to email someone to get the report of what happened on March 16th (or 17th?). For those of you that do not know, back in March, UM had an active shooter scare. I was right on campus at the time. I tried to write a column about my truly horrific experience. The column is at the end of this post. How long do we need to wait when what happened was 5 months ago? This is getting a little ridiculous. Second, I had from various sources reports that some type of medical emergencies have been occurring on campus. Did I get a chance to voice those opinions? No! Third, the DPSS is not listening to me, as a student who lived through the terrifying experiences of that day. They have not listened to me when I pretty loudly voiced my concerns when the Michigan Daily published an article. A copy of the article was here. No big deal. I became scared when the Capable Guardian program was first published. That was scary because of a volunteer basis that the program was being founded on. What if there is no volunteers? I am sitting on this board, charged with looking after the futures of disabled students on campus. Then, the DPSS did not listen to us when we as a subgroup of the IDEA board attempted to give the DPSS advice on the language that was going to be used in any text messages that was going to announce that an active shooter was on campus. I would think that if I were the DPSS, I would be more than welcoming whenas someone who experienced the events of March 16, I came to the realization that we must be proactive and not reactive when it comes to addressing the safety and security of individuals with disabilities. Okay, I will get off my rant now. As you can see, I have a lot to say about this all. That is why I allowed myself to be the leader of the subgroup on S & S of the IDEA board. ATTENTION: I had to write in advance, so it may take me a few days to incorporate your suggestions. However, I wanted you to know that I appreciate your thoughts and, though it will probably take me a little while, I value your ideas. I recently had the opportunity to read an article in the Washington Post entitled “Do protections for people with disabilities apply online?” What a hard read! In it, this article said Domino’s and the US Chamber of Commerce along with several of the nation’s largest retailers are going to the Supreme Court with the question of whether digital accessibility needs to be included with the ADA. I can understand a lot of the points this article was trying to make; it is 2019, do you not think that we would move past stuff? I have a close friend who is in the Office of Institutional Equity at the University of Michigan who would be very intrigued by this article. I wonder what they have to say about that. I think that this is a sad day for our country. We are in it deep with a ton of problems more pressing than the matter at hand. Also while going through that article, I was digging around on the Washington Post website and I found another article about those Trump straws and the environment. I have some ideas that I needed to get out there. Since I got back in Roseville, Michigan, I have been reading a lot about the environment. I am going off the disability arc for a second. First of all, come on people, we have much bigger problems in this world than this. Of course, that is a huge problem facing us in today’s world. The article stated that the conservatives have taken to social media. How infuriating is it that our elected officials are stooping so low? I know social media is where the people are. Second, 15 dollars are way too much for 10 straws. I believe the article said that it was on Amazon for 7 or 8 dollars for 12 reusable straws. No wonder the politicians are strapped for cash. Well, at least we are talking about the environment. I am typing at ⅓ the speed which I normally was doing at school. In 45 minutes, I wrote 1 paragraph. Back in school, I typed 3 paragraphs in that same time frame. Does anyone have any suggestions or ideas? This is too slow. I have tried Dragon and it is time to train took too long. In addition, the University of Michigan was right with the speed it takes me to write. It takes me about 2 hours to write 3 paragraphs. I got this idea from a friend for a Disability Pride Parade. Looking at some websites I got the idea of bringing a Disability Pride Parade to Ann Arbor. Then when I brought it to the Council for Disability Concerns, they were thinking even bigger, like Detroit. It was so heart-warming to see that people actually cared. So, now, I have this small, yet mighty, team that is willing to do this Disability Pride Parade. More to come on the Disability Pride Parade. July 2020!!! I am so happy! If you wanted to check it out, here is the Wikipedia page. I was recently graduated from University of Michigan! Oh, what a relief it is to be done with my undergraduate education. It took quite a long time to finish, 2003-2019, but I cannot wait to see what else life has in store for me. I know I have the best people working on getting me a job. They only told me that it will take an increased amount of time to find the perfect job for me. I am told to not expect anything until after the New Year. My only question is what will I do until then. With everybody going back to school, I feel like I have to get a job or something. How are the length of these? Are they long enough? Do they need to be longer? Hello, welcome to my blog. This allows me to communicate my thoughts to the world. I am sorry, but the first post will be short—just some thoughts. I am excited to reveal that for most people this blog will be accessible. However, I know that some people will need some further accessibility, email me at bebenhoeh@aisforability.com. I am sure we could work together and make this blog accessible. That address is going to be my email for all blog related items. I will still have my other emails for all other business. Again, bebenhoeh@aisforability.com is my email address for all blog related matters. I have to sign off with some phrase. I would like to encourage you to leave your thoughts on these four options in the comment section below. Stay kind to every person you meet! Ability is for everyone! Disability, it should be ability! #disabledpeoplearehot That last one is an actual hashtag. It is being dead serious and what a great hashtag that is. https://twitter.com/hashtag/disabledpeoplearehot?ref_src=twsrc%5Egoogle%7Ctwcamp%5Eserp%7Ctwgr%5Ehashtag One last point, I will be writing this blog myself, no scribes. Scribes were an integral part of school experience for me. They write down every little iota of what I have to say. I used to have scribes 18 hours a day, 7 days a week when I was in school. Now, I have to complete tasks by myself. I feel all grown up! So, you are going to have to give me a little while to figure out how to properly “blog.” But, we will have fun on this journey together.