Blog suspended... I am suspending my blog temporarily... I have to do something for the class I am in. After it is done, I will fill you in. I am not taking the day off, but I just had an extremely long day in Ann Arbor. I will explain it more when it is completed. My last year of high school was busy, as you can expect. With all the events of my senior year, I had in addition my preparations for college. I went to 3 different colleges with my dad, Purdue University, Kettering University, and of course the University of Michigan. GO BLUE! This was finally the point in my life where I could be free from the “normal-ties” of a high school student’s life. Oh, I wish I could have that mindframe back. Everything would change with my sophomore year. I was just as busy as I was in high school. One of my friends clued me in on a choir that I could play for and I even got a work study job accompanying financially destitute students in the School of Music, Theatre, and Dance at the University of Michigan, the Musical Theatre department. That is where I noticed that there was this kid who was something special, I could tell, but he was just a young child. Who would have thought that he would later turn out to be Benj Passak? How cool?!?! For those who do not know, he is the composer of La La Land, a fairly famous movie. However, my primary focus was my classes. I was fortunate enough to have taken AP courses. This was the time when Michigan allowed AP credits. I went in with 26 credits already completed, almost my first year of school finished (16 credits times 2 semesters equals 32 credits). I can recall the very first class I had to take at UM. It was at 8:30 a.m., for all of you UM students out there, that was 8:40 a.m.—Michigan time—and it was incredibly early. I can recollect which I was the butt of all jokes with my friends at the time and how hard the course was. I wanted to quit right there, but after some careful consideration I decided to continue at UM. I look back with wonder at how busy I was. Then I signed up to teach catechism to little second graders at the same parish that I was able to play the piano at school. Pay attention because the choir at St. Mary’s Student Parish plays a pivotal role in my story later. With a bit of trepidation, I went into my sophomore year. Not having the roommate I wanted, I went into living on North Campus, a faraway land of engineers and music students and a few other schools, a real lively place. I have the nightmare where you wake up late to your college exam. But, I quickly realized that this dream was a reality. I was tardy to my Inorganic Chemistry final exam and I will never forget the time on my clock: it was saying 8:30 a.m. and my exam started at 8 a.m.. I ran out the door so fast; this was on North Campus and my test was on Central Campus. It was a 20 minute bus ride from North Campus down to Central Campus. I got an ‘A’ for the semester so it could not be too bad. However, all that would change on the day which will forever live in infamy within my mind’s eye. The date: April 15th, 2005. I am taking a day off... Today, Michigan won. However the true question still has yet to be answered. Can we win against anyone good? I think next week we will be able to tell a lot about the University of Michigan Wolverine’s chances versus the rest of the Big Ten’s teams. I realize this was Rutgers Scarlet Knights that we beat by 52 points, but do not get your hopes up at this present moment. I, an amateur, think that Harbaugh was being stubborn and calling the offensive plays himself. If you will recall, I have seen one other quarter of the “Speed in Space” way of playing football. The second quarter of the very first game. Michigan took 12 years to get a win over a ranked opponent on the road. In 2006, the Wolverines beat Notre Dame and again, in 2018, they barely squeaked out a victory against MSU. All I am saying is it may take some time. Next time you want to rag on the Wolverines or Harbaugh I want you to remember that fact. Did you know the only other team in the Big 10 to have that poor of a showing versus the top 25? I will tell you that said team is now in a league all its own. Purdue!! Time for our weekly round up of the Greco Latin roots. I know that this must be incredibly boring for you, but it is not for me. So, real quick, does anyone remember what an “atypical” person is like? I will give you a hint: it is not a TV show on Netflix! Greek root What it Means in English Common Words Etymology (Word Origin) Sentence Example acr- Height, summit, tip Acrobatics, acromegaly, acrophobia, acronym Ákros, “high” or “extreme” I have acroataxia on the fingers and toes of my right hand side. anem- Wind Anemometer Anemos Nemo lives in an anemone, so called because anemones used to be known as windflower. ant- Against, opposed to, preventative Antagonist Anti, “against” Can I have an antacid because I think I ate some food that did not agree with my stomach? anti- Against, opposed to, preventative Antipode, antibiotics Anti, “against” Some might see him as being antisocial because he is on his phone all the time, but I do not. anth- Flower Anther, anthology Anthos, “flower” She suffers from anthophobia because flowers make her sneeze. I decided I was moving too fast last week. I have to make a correction to last week. I constructed the sentence, “Many thanks to https://www.oakton.edu/user/3/gherrera/Greek%20and%20Latin%20Roots%20in%20English/greek_and_latin_roots.pdf for allowing me use of their list of words.” as if the people of oakton.edu gave me permission to use their work. They did not allow me the adaption of their list. I am sorry. But thanks to the people at oakton.edu for posting that list. Does anyone object to my nerdiness with the Greco Latin roots? I am enjoying this, but I could see how you may not be. High school here I was. I had slowly developed a taste for music in grade school. When I went to talk to the band teacher at my high school, she said the clarinet was a beautiful instrument and here is the kicker; she also said the piano player was leaving my freshman year. So she told the position would have an audition coming up in my sophomore year. For those of you that do not know, I played a little bit of clarinet and a lot of the piano, I mean, a lot of the piano growing up. I had rehearsed for the piano for only three years from Grade 5-8. However, I was an accomplished pianist. Having played at the American Guild of Music competitions each year, I was the top of my class every year. I still have those trophies, winning at least 3 per year. My dad and I went up for band camp. The first week of August, I was so excited there was going to be people like me (dorks--I use the word with the most love!) at camp. I can still recall the first guy who was up there was reading Dracula. Just like me, I had been reading everything at that point. I had been reading since I was two, a dictionary that I had received from my mom and dad. But, band camp went swimmingly, and I met some great people there. Including my best friend at the time,  she was a female and a great companion. We even went to her high school junior prom together. Aww, cute. Until I get pulled over, my dad was coming in the car behind me. Then, I did not tell my mom until years later. She was surprised. But enough about me, my best friend from high school is what this paragraph is supposed to be about. At her graduation party I got so drunk, I nearly passed out. Sorry, Mom and my best friend’s mom. I said the term “pumpernickel, ” because I thought it was a funny word. Needless to say that I never lived that down until years later. I better stop because telling you these stories is getting me in a lot of trouble. So, I went through my freshman year, and in my sophomore year, the pianist graduated. After that, I auditioned for the jazz band and the rest is history as they say. I was all of the sudden not just in jazz band, but also in the jazz combo, and after some time I was playing for the plays and the men’s chorus. I was a busy kid. With all the Advanced Placement classes and piano playing, I do not know how I even slept. I have even played for all of my Catholic school’s masses. Band kids were cra-cra as my one friend says. We will go over why that is wrong in my language of disability chapter. It was my one, incidentally, area of specialty in school, by which I mean I wrote the most number of papers about it. When we went to China, sophomore year, the band kids were so brazen as to go out on the side of our building, the hotel, for a smoke break. You would never catch doing anything wrong at all. The only group more passionate group at my high school than the band kids were the theater nerds. This was another opportunity we had to meet girls. Naturally, my best friend was in all the musicals we had in school. She was in all Regina productions as well. We did Hello, Dolly!; Oliver!; My Fair Lady; and Me and My Girl. I cannot recall the Regina shows. Maybe one of you can tell me? I always think of Starburst Jelly Beans when I recall the shows. Those kinds of jelly beans are still and always were my favorite type of candy. When one year the music teacher gave me two colossal containers of those morsels, I was over the moon, so happy to receive some of my favorite candies. We should have a reunion of all the theater kids. I think I will do that this Christmas season.  Funnily enough, most of the theater kids, but not all of them, turned out to be LGBTQ. I say that because we are not supposed to stereotype, are we? Well, it is the honest-to-God truth in my high school. A large portion of the music kids there emerged as LGBTQ. Of course, another good chunk of them acted as straight as an arrow. But this was my first introduction to any LGBTQ people, and I decided to not be like them at all. I would want to be my own kind of LGBTQ person. I was in all Advanced Placement classes. My year of graduating, 2003, everybody made fun of me for having the largest load of medals at my commencement. At my graduation, they gave out medals for all the courses and I got a total of seven of them. That was a lot, because most of the kids had received a total of zero, one, or two medals. But, I was not the salutatorian or the valedictorian. Thank someone for that. I would not trade DLS for anything. Not even the no-girls, I made some of my best friends’ to this very day. GO DLS! GO REGINA! I graduated from that place, feeling like I got the best high school experience. However, I know that you can probably pick up most Joe Schmos off the street and they will tell you that their high school was the best. All that was a precursor to where I would choose to go to university. The University of Michigan is where I ended up. High School was too busy a time to keep going now. I got a pretty phenomenal score on the Math section of the ACT. It was another reason I chose the university I did. I wish my academics would have gone down a little differently. But I would not trade my education in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts for anything. But, more on that later next week. I started going to school at 3. No wonder I was wanting to be done when I am 33! 30 years of doing anything will take it out of you. I know some of my readers are approaching 40 years with their respective companies. I was in Kindergarten; the year was 1990. I can hear all the people who are poking fun at me; it is in good fun, of course. Haha! It was an uneventful Kindergarten. I do not even remember that all that much. I will bet that most of us do not recollect until we start coming into our own. Maybe that is the reason why I switched schools? Maybe I changed for other reasons? From Grades 1-5, I went to Holy Innocents Parish School. What was the mascot at that school? I am very curious now. I have tried looking it up online to no avail.  Following this, I attended St. Angela’s Parish School for Grades 6-8. Now, I was making myself heard. We used to, at the grade school dances, sit on the ground while one of the boy’s lip synced the popular songs. Oh, we were such children! 90’s music was incredibly stupid. Although, this type of experience formed me as the music of anyone’s childhood would. This was the point in my life where I began asking the question: why did I look at the other boys so differently, when most boys were concerned with girls? My reaction to this boy certainly was departing from the other boys. That was because I am gay. Thankfully, I have these amazing family members and friends who love me for me. This was an important part of me which we will revisit at differing parts of my story. It was a very integral point to the story, but it is not all of my story. I am a gay male, though I did not realize how much of an impact on the world I would later have as a disabled person as well. I understand now why I am writing this story. Not only telling you my story of a disabled person, but so that other people will be inspired by the telling of the story of a gay disabled individual. At the risk of being too cliche, it very much does get better. Sure, some things in life are bad. Everyone has those same problems. Furthermore, being gay does not have to define you. Love is love. So today, we are going way back, to 1985, not that far back, but it feels like eons ago. On August 16th, it was just like every day. But, I was born. One thing I have been moderately impressed with is the length of time mother’s stay at the hospital. In my old days, people were always intrigued by the fact that I stayed in the hospital just a days. Now, if you stay in the hospital longer than two days, it seems like you have something wrong with the neonatal. I was a bright shining star for a little kid. Haha! I am sure my childhood looked pretty normal—take note of that word. It will be important later. Most of you do not know this, but we had a pool in our neighborhood and it had a deep end, as well. My parents were two of the biggest presences there and I spent much of my early life at that pool. Why was I so afraid to the water in my later life? I do not know, especially because I was a fish at that pool. Many of my earliest memories were of me and the water. The memories that stick out to me were of that pool and at Roseville’s or at St. Clair Shores community pools. The latter two were swimming lessons. As a matter of fact, this walk down memory lane has been good for me because I now am remembering why I was so afraid of the water. Probably the first memory that I have was at the Roseville Junior High pool. All I can remember is being told to jump in the shallow end. I was very fearful of this experience. Can you imagine being commanded to jump without your mom and dad right there. Of course, I had swimmies on. Do they even call them swimmies now, wow, the companies still call them swimmies, or toddler floaties. Thanks, Amazon! This was not a paid advertisement of Amazon, however now that I mention it, I would like this to be. I have three more days of this fascinating first chapter. I am sure! I just have to set up the story. It is my initial chapter, the first draft. Attention: I will be giving you guys my entire story Monday-Thursday, then my Greco Latin roots on Friday, and my take on the Michigan Wolverines on the weekends. All rights reserved for I plan to publish it (and some more) in a book someday. This first few days are my life previous to my accident. I was the epitome of a white male, able-bodied, of course. I started at Mark Twain Elementary (part of Fraser Public Schools System), Holy Innocent’s Parish, St. Angela’s Parish, and De La Salle Collegiate High School. Yes, you may have noticed a theme with the last three schools. That right, I went to Catholic school for Grades 1-12. Part of the reason why I am so punctual is that at Catholic school if you were on time, you were late. I can trace that back to three possible culprits to my being so on time for every event, my time in the Catholic school system, my father (also a Catholic school graduate), and my rides on the Paratransit system at the University of Michigan. If any of you can relate, you are the best! I would not trade my time at a Catholic school for nothing, even if it were in the case of my high school an all-guys school. What is the number one question people ask about me going to a Catholic all-male high school: what did you guys do if a female presence required? I am here to tell you that we were resourceful, we had a plethora of schools to choose from. The primary school we went to was the all-girls high school just down the road, Regina. That was where my best friend from high school went. Regina was where some of my closest friends attended high school. However, a girl from anywhere is a girl, and I know that will get me in trouble. Particularly with my sister, who is a Catholic school girl as well. We had our pick of girls, from all the public schools and private ones to boot. We had all the girls at De La Salle high school dances. I can even remember two of the female teachers, and they were in charge of the girl’s dress code at the DLS dances. These girls were not the best dressed if you know what I mean. Those teachers deserved an award or something. But getting back to my story, that was all so long ago. I did not think I recollected. This was before smartphones and GPS. How did we ever live back then? If you were to come to me then and tell me of the magic Bluetooth. I would probably feel your head and promptly inform you that you were sick. I do not wish to be too repetitive so that I will keep these first couple posts down in length. I could go on forever and a day with high school stories. However, that is not what you came here for; I just have one more thing to say about high school for today. American Pie by Don McLean (sp?) Most of you will have a high school song. American Pie was my high school’s song. I am still reeling from this “my favorite team in NCAA performing so poorly.” However, I bleed maize and blue. So GO BLUE until next week, when we will hopefully not have to witness such a massacre. But, who knows with another Big 10 opponent on the horizon? We have one of hardest conferences besides the South. Well what can I say about the Michigan Wolverines? If you had not yet seen, we got absolutely man handled on Saturday. Wisconsin was a great opponent, but the Umich had no excuse to be playing so poorly. I am not sure whether it is the coaches or players that are to blame. I am back! The reverse job fair went extremely well. What is a reverse job fair; you might say? That is one in which the companies come to you. I got a few leads; we will need to wait and see where they go. I have been told to not expect anything to come from this event. However, that was mostly just practice for when real companies begin their interviewing process. For today’s LoD blog post, I want to focus on the hateful words associated with the topic of ableism. There are two groups of words here. They are, one, words or phrases tied with history and, two, those used in metaphors. I will go over the two later. First, these thoughts have evolved since my last writing. Evolution is a natural part of life. Most of the thoughts here are a direct result of being a part of my University of Michigan disability culture group. The first of these is the words or phrases which have a close relationship to history.  The following are ableist: Gimp Crazy Handicap Insane Stupid Retard(ed) These words or phrases are not to be used, at all. There are many other words or phrases I have chosen not to type because I am disabled person and I do not wish to give these the light of day. Same with the n-word or Indian, when referring to Native—or indigenous—Americans, are a few examples of what those words. History is a big part of who we are. Those words or phrases are ableist because of the deep and often prevalent historical (I know that is an oxymoron) use of the words or phrases. Many of the words or phrases have been in popular use; think of ableism as something as old as chauvinism. I will not bore you with a list of those words or phrases, only for you to categorize them. 9 times out of 10 people do not know about ableism words or phrases, but just ask your neighborhood disabled person if you are not familiar with them. Second of all, the words or phrases used as metaphors. You all remember being in grade school and recall what “metaphors” are. Recollect the English class that you were in where the teacher said “like/as” were associated with metaphors. The following are examples of ableist language: “Blind as a bat” “Deaf as a doornail” “Stand up like Shaq” “Stupid like Jim Carrey” The preceding were just examples, many better and worse have been thought up before. The words or phrases listed above are the main way phrases are communicated that are ableist. The main difference in what I think about now versus what I think about in the past is the reclaiming of the word “disabled” or any of its similarly rooted words. It is now okay to use that word. We are taking it back and it is now a good word to say. I would not want any of my fair readers to spew more hatred on this world. It is bad enough out there. Especially for young children, I wish for all the youngsters that they learn a love for their body. They should not be taught to “hate” their body because of its “disability.” As a matter of fact, I yearn for nobody on this earth to be so full of the hatred that many of the mainstream groups of people possess. I am suspending my blog so I can work on my reverse job fair. I have a ton of work in the next few days. Warning: I have been studying the AP Stylebook, that is a guidebook which lets you write in the same styling as the Associated Press and it will allow me to edit and write technical writing articles. I am going to talk about a very close personal idea to being a disabled person. I feel dirty, telling you about it. Haha! Today, I am going to speak to you regarding “inspiration porn” and to involve Stella Young’s TedX video from Sydney, Australia. I put the link to it in this blog post. First of all, Young was a quite brilliant and hilariously funny disabled advocate. If you guys do not know her, you should look her up on Google—Google is a very smart lady! She was incredibly young when she died, only 32 years old. I think we all need to take a moment to remember her. She was living down under and Wikipedia said that she was “a...comedian, journalist, and disabled advocate.” She did a TedX talk in Sydney. The words “inspiration porn” were actually first coined in an editorial on the online Ramp Up magazine that is owned by the Australian Broadcasting Company. Look here for Young’s Wikipedia page: https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stella_Young ‘Inspiration porn’ refers to the objectification of disabled people. Young, always funny, cheerfully informs the audience of the time she was a high school teacher. She was sitting in a class for close to 30 minutes, when she was asked by a student, “When are you going to do your speech?” Just at that moment, she realized that all of the students were exposed to ‘inspiration porn’ a bit too much. In her own words, “disabled people are not our teachers or our doctors or our manicurists. We're not real people. We are not there to inspire.” She did not say ‘inspiration porn’ in this video; it was probably too racy at the time of the video. But, she did deal with the subject matter. She continues on for a hot second, then says, here is the quote in my opinion, “I really want to live in a world where disability is not the exception, but the norm.” How true can one’s words be? I am trying to live in that world. It is not easy, but I have been making an attempt at it. Here is Young’s TedX video in which she discusses ‘inspiration:’ https://www.ted.com/talks/stella_young_i_m_not_your_inspiration_thank_you_very_much/up-next I sincerely hope that by now; you can see why this video is included in on our ableism stories. If you cannot, I will explain it to you. It would be on here because the angle Young’s take on disability portrays. Disability is a directly ableist word, not a bad word. As I have learned in my time at school, I wish no one to be so hateful of anyone that he or she or they are ashamed of who they are. That is a topic we will have to go into another day, child bullying. It has been getting better. Besides that Young’s video is fairly priceless and humorous, why did I bring this presentation to you, reader? I brought it to your careful consideration because disabled people do not deserve to be only the “inspiration.” We are people and, sure, we do inspiring accomplishments but we also do questionable accomplishments. Just like everyone else. We are people and I want everybody to remember that. Today, I was flipping through my Facebook feed while writing this very blog post. I came across an “inspiration porn” post. It was so cute, but totally unnecessary. It was a picture of a young child with mental disabilities. I will not go into that anymore in fear of them reading this blog. However, when will people come to realize that mental disabilities are real? These people are not trying to be cute. They just are. I could think of so many other stories that are more important than that IP. One more thing, I heard this song today and its melodies were so haunting and familiar at the same time. I did a little research and found out that the song was done by Whitney Houston and covered by several others. This song was So Emotional by Jon McLaughlin. Everyone should check it out including my PA, because if he does not guess what song we will play all day tomorrow. A byte (that was a minuscule amount of tech humor) about the length of these blog posts: I have been reading a lot regarding writing in general. Most of the authors of these blurbs seem to come to a consensus. They pretty much say to just publish something everyday. I, as well, am thinking the same idea when dealing with my blog. So, I have decided to just write something in my blog every day. It does not matter how much, one day it could be as large as 2,000 words or it could conversely be as little as 100 words. I am not going to restrict myself to any one number. I am a dork or a nerd or even a dweeb; I know. Maybe that is why no one is reading this blog? However, the only idea I have regarding being a human being is that I can be myself, which is the truth. I am not going to apologize for being myself. That is a massive step for me. You can probably guess, not much has happened to me these past few weeks. Besides my brother coming over twice(!) and the several meetings I have in a given week, I was traveling through life. It has been a bumpy ride so far. I enjoy seeing my brother because he still is the closest family member to me, but I know he does not think so. Should I do anything about that fact? About my meetings, a lot of them were with the people who were preparing my board for the reverse job fair. Very exciting! I am that closer to getting a career.! I am going to send out my blog on my Facebook feed tomorrow. I am going to talk about Michigan football, but I am not the professionals. I am just a guy watching his favorite team. Being a fan since 2003, I have seen all the ups and downs. Let’s be real they were mostly down for the past 15 years. But, not this year, if the hype is to be believed, I do not like to play speculators. I prefer to have them play it on the field. However, I will go into the more positive aspects first. For the most part, I was pleasantly surprised by the defense. Aidan Hutchinson and Vincent Gray were two particularly stand out players. Can they continue this next week? Who knows? Second, I thought Josh Gattis’s play calling was interesting. There definitely was a time or two where I could detect a little jealousy on Jim Harbaugh’s part. I will not say whether this was bad or good. Overall, they did a solid “B.” I did not think we would cover the spread. I think I got some hassle from the other Michigan fans in the room. “It’s the most wonderful time of the year.” I feel like Andy Williams is appropriate here. Football time is in attention again. Our 9 month wait is over. So, if you have not guessed, I am a Michigan man. That means my life has been chock full of “The Team, The Team, The Team.” My one Computer Science professor even refers to his class being for “The Client, The Client, The Client.” Therefore, I do not like to play the guessing game that accompanies, it is game time I think you would have the need for some analysis. I have decided to keep off until Saturday (8/31) I am going to be out of town for 8/21-8/27 I am taking the day off. Some changes are coming in my schedule... --Monday: ~650 words/My Little --Tuesday: ~650 words/Ableism stories --Wednesday: ~100 words/Proflle of disabled person --Thursday: ~650 words/LoD Day --Friday: ~650 words/Technical writing day --Saturday: ~100 words/Michigan football pre-game --Sunday: ~100 words/Michigan football post-game Sorry for changing it around again. Today, I want to discuss institutions. How is that tied to ableism? Institutions were created by the state once upon a time as a place where they would ”keep” disabled people. Those places were thought to stigmatize ”disability” by holding up that ”limitations” were contagious. Of course, this was later found to be false. ”...[D]isabilit[ies] [are] not...contagious…” was one of the instances where I searched online and located disabilities are not contagious. That was out of Journal of Medical Humanities in Margot Shildrick’s article ”Becoming Vulnerable: Contagious Encounters and the Art Risk.” The story can be uncovered at the following website: https://scholar.google.com/scholar?hl=en&as_sdt=0%2C23&q=disabilities+are+not+contagious+&btnG=#d=gs_qabs&u=%23p%3Dd05ZzD-ZE3sJ. There are many other sources confirming my supposition. Many of the said publications can be unearthed at the preceding web address. While we are on the subject of disabilities not being contagious, have I got a story for you. I did not tell this scary story to anyone. When I was in Calculus 2 at the fine place of learning Macomb Community College right near my house, I was talking to this one guy, ”Nicky, ” we will call him, after class. We moved out in the hallway, for there was another class in the room after ours. When we got out, we encountered his other friend, ”Wicky.” He was friendly and amiable, but when I went to shake his hand, something was afoot. Wicky did not want to shake my hand! It was as if my hand went out, but his own did not. I know that it was just a handshake. However, that occurred and was like an insult to my character. I will never forget that day. This was even more surprising given the date was 2014. All names have been changed to protect the innocent. Now, back to your regularly scheduled programming, the story of institutions was very perplexing. One instance of this story was as follows. Many of you do not know the Arc; they are the nation's largest civil rights group, for people with disabilities, based out of Washington, D.C.. They recently ”reject… President Trump’s comments on bringing back institutions.” The Arc’s CEO, Peter Berns, has said, “Re-institutionalization would bring people with disabilities back into the dark ages of isolation and segregation.” I could not have said it more correct myself. Trump apparently wants us to go back to ”the dark ages.” That is the scariest quotation I have heard in a while. I would prefer it to not live in an institution. I want the outside world. This story can be found at: https://thearc.org/the-arc-rejects-president-trumps-comments-on-bringing-back-institutions/?fbclid=IwAR23zvxFoRCf11YF7j1K59dQ3nmlz3L2F8SIWmWBllLVf8lYZFPPCRtJKm8. That was Saturday morning, then I received this article in my email this morning. It said, ”Trump Extends Program Helping People Leave Institutions.” What a change from the President's comments this weekend? The article noted that the government will give $122.5 million for a program that helps people abandon institutions. Money Follows the Person is a federal aid program created because of the Olmstead Decision of 1999. That said people with disabilities have the right to community-based services in lieu of institutions.  MFTP exists to serve part with disabilities vacate institutions. This last part is the one in which my faith in humanity is restored. You can find the story here: https://www.disabilityscoop.com/2019/08/20/trump-extends-program-helping-people-leave-institutions/27038/. You see why I said ”perplexing,” in the beginning. To go from one extreme to the other in a weekend is a lot for anyone to take into consideration.